### Procedure
In this experiment you will guided through the position analysis of a 4 bar RRPR Grashofian Inverted Slider Crank.
Position analysis can be approached analytically. Using complex numbers is a popular analytical approach. The animated guide that follows right next shows the analytical method of determining the position of a point on the coupler of a RRPR linkage as the linkage moves. The next animation shows the graphical constructions needed for the position analysis of a double crank linkage. A summary of what you are expected to do follows. This is followed by stwo animated guides for finding out the two extreme configurations for the slider, because in a slider crank, while the input link (link 2 - crank) does rotate through a full circle, the slider has limits on its displacement. There are thus two extreme positions of the slider and the corresponding crank angles that you are expected to find out using these guides.

- In the Instruments tab use the first applet to choose a set of 4 link lengths. Enter your choices for link lengths. The apllet will let you know if the lengths conform to a Grashofian Double Crank. If your link lenths are improper go back to the Introduction tab and check the Crashofs criteria Grashofian Double Crank and modify link lengths accordingly.
- Use the Drawing Board applet in the Instruments tab to find the linkage configuration for a given input link orientation (theta 2).
- Finally there is a third applet in the Instruments tab which lets you verify your results. Enter your answers to see the correct values for coupler position and the accuracy of your answers obtained graphically.
